# Visual-Analysis-of-World-War-II

A Visual Analysis of World War II – deadliest conflict in the history: [ArcGIS Story Telling Link](https://storymaps.arcgis.com/stories/84214791641c43c9a6eef799d555a16a).

## Table of Contents
* Abstract
* Introduction

## Abstract
The project focuses on events analysis of World War II by using narrative storytelling methods. With narrative perspective, people can easier understand and be attracted to the information we want to deliver. Using ArcGIS, Gephi and Tableau tools, we can demonstrate specific events with visual analysis of data or statistics. In this project, we will go through world war II by introducing history, analyzing weapons and attacked countries, showing reaction of civilization by weather condition, expressing the economy of the whole world, explaining the reason for women employment rate increasing, and the total mortality rate.

## Intoduction
In history, World War II caused greater damage than any other war. About 17 million soldiers and a much larger number of civilians perished in the war as a consequence of bombs, hunger, and deliberate mass murder campaigns. So far, World War II has been the most deadly and bloodiest war to date. By the end of the war, more than 38 million people had died, many of them innocent civilians. It was the most devastating war in our present history as well. In this war, which changed the world forever, more than 50 nations participated. World War II (1939-1945) can be followed back to some of the causes of World War I (1914-1918). After World War-I everyone thought it was the end of all wars. But, on September 1st, 1939 in Europe World War-II was started. It lasted for 6 years and 1 day which ended on September 2nd, 1945. World War-II has started due to many reasons out of which one was because Germany wanted Danzig city back. After World War-I Germany lost many of its territories in the Versailles treaty in 1919. Out of many territories, Danzig city is one of them. It was the first union territory which was later occupied by Poland. Poland disagreed to give Danzig back to Germany by taking the support of France and Britain. Before declaring war on Poland, German leader Adolf Hilter signed a Non-Aggression Pact with Soviet leader Joseph Stalin on August 23rd, 1939 where the two countries agreed to not take any military action against each other for the next 10 years. After that on September 1st, 1939 Germany had attacked Poland from the east side, and on September 17th, 1939 Russia had also attacked from the west side. Two days later Germany declared war on Poland. France and Britain joined Poland and declared war on Germany. Both the countries occupied Poland, the eastern part was taken by Germany and the western part taken by Russia. From World War-I the Allies’ power countries France, Great Britain, and the United States were against communism and the Axis power countries were Italy, Germany, Japan. In World War-II it’s the first time in history a nuclear weapon was used, and women stepped out to work while men served their countries as soldiers and after a while women also stepped into war zones.